How to build a nest egg in Japan

Retiring with a million dollars in the bank isn't as unreachable as most people believe. The secret is to reguarly invest small amounts of money over a long period of time. For instance, if you invest $250 a month for 46 years in something which returns on average 7% you will earn yourself $1,000,000. $2,000,000 if you get a 9% return.

Investing might sound difficult especially when living as a foreigner in Japan but the good news is, with a little know how you can find low risk, low cost ways to invest your money. You won't need to pay a costly financial advisor. Nor will you have to spend your weekends crunching through financial reports. You can start investing all by yourself and put everything on autopilot. I'll show you how later.

Still, you might be tempted to put this off for when you return home but procastination will lose you money. Delay by a single year and the $1,000,000 above would shrink by $50,000! Or $120,000 if you delay by 2 years. So it's important to get started straight away.

First let's calculate an estimate for your retirement nest egg

What to invest in


Protecting yourself from tax

When you eventually cash out your nestegg the Japanese governemnt will charge you income tax on any gains you have made. How much income tax you will have to pay depends on your individual circumstances but 25% is not unusual.

For example. If over 40 years you contribute a total of $100,000 and your nestegg grows to $1,000,000 you have made $900,000. It's this "income" which the government will tax you on and the payable tax can be quite a big chunk of your nestegg.

Fortunately the government has launched two schemes called iDeCo and Nisa to encourage people to invest more. As a sweetner, both of these schemes considerably reduce the amount of tax you have to pay on your investments growth.

So if you are planning to start investing for your retirement whilst in Japan you should definitely consider doing so via one of these schemes.

iDeco

The ideco system allows you to make monthly contributions to various managed investment funds and cash saving accounts and provides tax relief on those contributions. It's amazing because the iDeCo provides tax relief not only when you cash out your nestegg but also when you put money into it.

When you cash out, you won't have to pay income tax on all of your investment's growth but rather a smaller proportion of it leaving you with more money in your nestegg.

However the best part is the tax relief on the monthly contributions you put into the iDeco. Every month the government charges income tax on all the income you make. However, when you invest via the iDeCo the government will refund the income tax you originally paid on the monthly contribution amount and top up your iDeCo with it. Given that for the average person income tax in Japan is around the 25% mark this is a significant amount of money especially when you factor in compound interest.









For every yen you put into the iDeCo, the government will reimburse you the income tax you originally paid them For every penny, or rather yen, you put into the iDeCo, the government will also reimburse you the income tax you originally paid when you earnt it.


Every month you earn a salary and the government charges you income tax on it. For illustrative purposes let's assume your income tax rate to be 25%. Now if you invest ¥20,000 a month into the iDeco from your taxed salary the government will top it up with the tax you originally paid on that ¥20,000 i.e. an extra ¥5,000.

Nisa


d * 25/100 = 25

d = ( 25 * 100 ) / 25


( 25/100 - 1 ) * d  = 20

d = 20/(1 - 25/100)

d = 26









A tale of two graphs or how a difference an extra ¥5,000 makes
















The ideco system allows you to invest a set amount of money each month in various funds. In return it gives tax relief  How much you can invest depneds on your employment status. If you are a regular employee the limit is ¥23,000. Self employed ¥80000.

When you retire and decide to draw from your nestegg the amount of income tax you have to pay to the governent is reduced thanks to the Ideco.

But the biggest perk the ideco provides is h


The ideoc allows you to make monthly investments which wilMake your monthly investesetments via the Ideco and you w
The ideoc allows you to invest upto a certain amount of money each month into various funds.
Every month you give the governent a slice of your wages as income tax. If you
Every month the government charges you income tax on your salary. Let's assume this is 25%. When



The ideco is a nobrainer if you are planning to spend the rest of your life in Japan. If you plan to return home at somepoit you may want to













The best part is all of this can be put on autopilot without the need for you to crunch through financial reports on the weeke


Keep reading and you will:
1. Learn how much money you should save each month for your retirement nestegg
2. Learn how to protect your nestegg from tax with government backed investment schemes
3. Find a community of Japan based foreigners helping each other out on retirement and investment issues
4. Find great books and resources to help you plan
Use this calculator to estimate your retirement nestegg. I'll also show you


If your like me a few years ago, then you're probably not an expert in investing and probably wondering:

1. Whats the catch?
2.
Building a nestegg to support your retirement whilst living in Japan isn't as hard as you might think. Want to retire with a million dollars in the bank? It's not so unrealistic if you invest a little money every month over a long period of time. Did you know a graduate who beings to invest $250 a month in the stock market until their 67th birthday would make $1,000,000 under the stock markets average long term return of 7%. They'd earn $2,000,000 if they got 9%.

Investing might sound difficult, or even very risky but it doesn't have to be. There are plenty of low risk "set it and forget it" options out there and a fantastic online community of Japan based foreigners helping each other out to find out the best options.  More on that later. But first...

Let's calculate your nest egg's estimated value

First how old are you?

At what age do you want to retire?

How much money from your savings can you invest from the start?

How much can you invest per month?

What do you think will be the average rate of return each year?


Your nestegg estimate

$10000000000

This is how much your nestegg is estimated to be worth after 40 years. It assumes you'll invest $4000 from the start and supplement it with $500 monthly additions in something which grows at an average of 7% per year.

Delay by one year and lose $1,000,000. Wait 2 years to get started and lose $150,000





Procastinate for just one year
and lose $150,000

Procastinate for three years
and lose $300,000

How much cna you invest
How to protect yourself from tax
What to invest in










It's easy to put this off for another day but procastination loses you money. The student above would lose $150,000 if they delayed by just one year.

Want to see how much you can make by your retirement? Enter your details below and see your Nestegg estimate.


Procastination kills your nestegg
Delay by one year and lose
$500,000.
Your nest egg shrinks to $33333

Delay by 3 years and lose
$500,000.
Your nest egg shrinks to $33333







Living and working abroad often feels like a holiday and makes it easy to put lifeplanning on the backburner and say "I'll deal with that when I get back".


